# Converged Computing: the ultimate turducken

> The intersection of technology and culture between cloud and high performance computing

The high performance computing (HPC) community has an often tumultuous relationship with cloud, with advocates from both sides often facing off in a West Side Story style fight to debate the two. The costs and lack of transparency about cloud resources is problematic. The lack of consistent, automated orchestration on HPC poses challenges for running complex, emerging workflows. While hybrid environments or embracing common technologies or abstractions is a reasonable start, the economic growth of cloud, projected to be the largest sector of computing by revenue by 2025, suggests that HPC needs an established foundation and strategy for integration with cloud, both from a technological and cultural standpoint. If our HPC community cannot be successful toward this integration, we will be left behind. 

To establish this foundation the community must make the ultimate turducken - Converged Computing, or creating environments and technologies that combine the best of both worlds. In this talk I will discuss innovative work we are doing toward this future goal -- implementing HPC technologies inside of Kubernetes, and flipping the directionality to run Kubernetes inside of an HPC workload manager. I touch on improving the default Kubernetes scheduler by way of bringing more sophisticated graph scheduling into Kubernetes directly (a project called Fluence), implementing the entirely of an HPC workload manager inside of Kubernetes (the Flux Operator) and then finally presenting the ultimate turducken - running machine learning and HPC applications (including the Flux Operator itself) inside of Kubernetes, inside of Flux - the ultimate turducken. With this strategy, we aim to not only enable portability of applications between cloud and HPC, but to bring our expertise to cloud and foster engagement that makes the future a collaborative effort and not an adversarial one.
